So back in our course project, this is how it looks right now
and I always opened it in this mobile device preview here in the Chrome developer tools.
Now actually of course I can turn this off and if I close the developer tools, you see this already is
a responsive web application. In fullscreen mode on a desktop,
we have the toolbar with our navigation items up here in a button and we can see the card here
and we have that image here
but if I shrink that screen even without entering device preview mode, you'll see how it adjusts
and now we have the toolbar icons, from a certain point on, they are gone and we only have that side drawer.
So the application already is responsive because I'm using this material design lite package behind
the scenes, the package
we basically import with that style import here in our index.html file, this CSS file combined with Javascript
file here which is for example responsible for the drawer working,
we ensured that our application already is responsible.
Now let's inspect what's causing that.
Actually if we inspect our toolbar here for example, as I increase it, you will see that the classes here
changed,
did you see that flicker,
watch closely here on the right.
If I shrink this, it's purple because the class has changed.
Now what's changing is that if I increase this to be on a big screen, it has these classes
but if I shrink it, it gets the extra isSmall screen class.
Now that is simply attached via Javascript to be honest
but the isSmall screen class decides that we no longer should see the toolbar icons.
So on the header row here or to be precise, on the navigation here, these icons or these items here,
they're no longer visible because they get hidden
if we have the isSmall screen class added. If we click the whole navigation area, here if isSmall screen is
added,
the display is set to none,
so that leads to the toolbar items disappearing.
And this is one way of implementing a responsive design, using Javascript to detect when the screen
size changes and attaching a certain class or removing a certain CSS class. The CSS native way is this
one here though, use a certain media query, in this example that the width of the screen is a maximum
of 1024 pixels
and then this style here will only get applied if this is true.
If I increase this beyond that boundary, you'll see the media query is gone here because now we have more
than 1024 pixels, you can see it here in the top right corner as I move this and hence this is removed.
So this is generally how we already work with it without us writing any code for it.
Now if you build your application from scratch and you don't use any library as I do, you will have to
write all the logic on your own
and this is where this responsive design course you should have a look at
comes into play.
Now that's one thing
but I also want to write my own code, for example this card.
It always has the same width, no matter how wide my screen is,
I also want to take care about this image here because on big screens, it doesn't look as good as it
could,
we could actually use a bigger image there.
Let's start with CSS and media queries though.